README.md, before:

# ELV Emporium
### Introduction

ELV Emporium is a web application designed to be a one-stop shop for Extra-Low Voltage (ELV) gadgets. This platform not only provides a range of ELV products but also offers an optional installation booking service. The project aims to address the difficulty of sourcing quality ELV gadgets in Nigeria, providing both urban and rural areas with easy access to essential technology.

Deployed Site: [ELV Emporium](https://hephzibah.pythonanywhere.com)

Final Project Blog Article: [Read More](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/spicing-up-elv-emporium-flavor-challenges-encountered-onovo-s1pie/)

Author LinkedIn: [Chinecherem Onovo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chinecherem-onovo-349427250/)

### Installation

To run ELV Emporium locally, follow these steps:

Clone the Repository:

`git clone https://github.com/yourusername/elv_emporium.git`

Navigate to the Project Directory:

`cd elv_emporium`

Create and Activate a Virtual Environment:

`python -m venv venv`
`source venv/bin/activate ` # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

Install Dependencies:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

Set Up the Database:

`flask db upgrade`

Run the Application:

`flask run`

### Usage

Once the application is running, you can:

1. Browse and search for ELV gadgets.
2. Book installation services through the website.
3. Access the user account features for registration and login.

### Contributing

ELV Emporium is currently maintained by Chinecherem Onovo. Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the Repository
2. Create a New Branch:

`git checkout -b feature-branch`

3. Commit Your Changes:

`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`

4. Push to the Branch:

`git push origin feature-branch`

5. Create a Pull Request

### Related Projects

**Jumia:** A leading e-commerce platform in Africa that offers a wide range of products, including electronics and home appliances.
**Best Buy:** A major electronics retailer providing a broad range of consumer electronics, including ELV gadgets.

### Licensing

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://mit-license.org/) file for details.

### Screenshot of ELV Emporium

Commit message:

Added project background into readme

README.md, after:

# ELV Emporium
### Introduction

ELV Emporium is a web application designed to be a one-stop shop for Extra-Low Voltage (ELV) gadgets. This platform not only provides a range of ELV products but also offers an optional installation booking service. The project aims to address the difficulty of sourcing quality ELV gadgets in Nigeria, providing both urban and rural areas with easy access to essential technology.

Deployed Site: [ELV Emporium](https://hephzibah.pythonanywhere.com)

Final Project Blog Article: [Read More](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/spicing-up-elv-emporium-flavor-challenges-encountered-onovo-s1pie/)

Author LinkedIn: [Chinecherem Onovo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chinecherem-onovo-349427250/)


### Project Background

ELV Emporium didn’t start as my idea—it was inspired by my brother’s vision. He had always been passionate about bridging the gap in acquiring electrical products for industries and home or office users. His dream, Westeserve, was to make these products accessible to everyone, whether you needed high-grade industrial equipment or simple home-use electrical gadgets.

Watching him work on Westeserve sparked something in me. I saw the potential of what he was trying to achieve, and I wanted to contribute in my own way. That’s when the idea of ELV Emporium was born—a one-stop online platform specifically for Extra-Low Voltage (ELV) gadgets. From CCTVs to intercom systems, I wanted to make it easy for people to find, purchase, and even book installations for these essential products, all in one place.

My goal was to create a platform that complemented his vision, providing users with a seamless experience that took care of both their product needs and the often overlooked installation services. ELV Emporium became my way of supporting his larger vision while putting my technical skills to use in a practical, impactful way.

## Team
Chinecherem Onovo is the only contributor at this time. 

## Technologies
Languages: HTML, CSS (Bootstrap), JavaScript, Python

Framework and Libraries: Flask, SQLite, Bootstrap

For the frontend, I used Bootstrap 5.3 for styling and ensuring responsive design, which allowed me to create a mobile-friendly and visually consistent user interface. Additionally, I incorporated JavaScript to handle dynamic interactions on the site, such as form validations and other client-side functionalities. Jinja, though primarily a backend templating engine in Flask, played a role in rendering dynamic content within the HTML templates, making it easier to display data from the server side directly on the frontend. This combination allowed for flexibility and efficiency in developing the user interface.

For the backend development, Flask was used due to its simplicity and scalability. Flask's lightweight nature helped me focus on building a functional application without the overhead of more complex frameworks. Paystack was integrated to handle payments securely, providing a reliable and user-friendly payment processing solution tailored to the Nigerian market.

## Resoures 
Flask documentation, Bootstrap documentation

### Installation

To run ELV Emporium locally, follow these steps:

Clone the Repository:

`git clone https://github.com/yourusername/elv_emporium.git`

Navigate to the Project Directory:

`cd elv_emporium`

Create and Activate a Virtual Environment:

`python -m venv venv`
`source venv/bin/activate ` # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

Install Dependencies:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

Set Up the Database:

`flask db upgrade`

Run the Application:

`flask run`

### Usage

Once the application is running, you can:

1. Browse and search for ELV gadgets.
2. Book installation services through the website.
3. Access the user account features for registration and login.

### Contributing

ELV Emporium is currently maintained by Chinecherem Onovo. Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the Repository
2. Create a New Branch:

`git checkout -b feature-branch`

3. Commit Your Changes:

`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`

4. Push to the Branch:

`git push origin feature-branch`

5. Create a Pull Request

### Related Projects

**Jumia:** A leading e-commerce platform in Africa that offers a wide range of products, including electronics and home appliances.
**Best Buy:** A major electronics retailer providing a broad range of consumer electronics, including ELV gadgets.

### Licensing

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://mit-license.org/) file for details.

### Screenshot of ELV Emporium
